---
published: false
---



## Performing AJAX Requests in an Elm app

I've been spending time with Elm lately. It's the most comfortable path I've found into the Haskell-ish world of pure functional programming. I've been attempting to become proficient in Haskell for almost a year now (given, mostly only with a few hours of spare time here and there) and have time and again run into frustration with difficult theoretical concepts, and a percieved lack of productivity.

But I have been able to make headway with Elm. The language is designed in such a way that much less contextual knowledge is needed just to get started.

That said, it still takes a bit of mind-expansion to understand how to do things in Elm that are trivial in Javascript (like make AJAX requests). This is because Elm encourages the developer to incorporate the concept of linear time into her program structure, and to address up-front all possible branches of behavior her app might take. 

Elm provides tools for addressing these concepts:

## Signals

I'm just getting started with the concept of signals. As I understand it, this same concept can be found in many other languages in the form of [Reactive Extensions](http://reactivex.io/). The Rx library refers to them as "Observables" insead of "Signals", and there are some API differences, but the general concept remains the same.

One of the benefits of Signals / Observables is that they provide a way for the programmer to explicitly address how linear time affects the operation of the app while programming.

With Observables, the programmer is working with an object that represents both data and time together.

For example, instead of just iterating over a normal array:

```javascript
	[a, b, c]
```

The program can iterate over an signal of lists, where the lists change over time:

```javascript
	[a, b, c] ----------- [a, b, waahoooo] ------- [apples, b, waahoooo] -->
```

## Maybes
