---
layout: post
title: "Codemods"
date: 2015-11-21 06:22
comments: true
---

During [Kuali's](http://kuali.co) most recent hack week I decided to upgrade one of our large projects from [Flow](http://flowtype.org/) 0.14 to the latest version.

A number of significant new features were added in the new version, chief among which was support for Generators. We're using Koa as our web framework, and have thousands of uses of generators scattered through our codebase, all of which are prefixed with a comment: `// $FlowIssue yield`. In Flow 0.14, that comment suppressed errors about generators not being supported. Unfortunately, it also just turned off Flow completely on that line. After upgrading flow it now understood generators and found all kinds of problems with how we'd written our code. Flow errors in our codebase went from 0 to 1495 errors.

I spent a lot of time trying to figure out how to resolve those errors using search & replace, or fixing errors by hand. But those efforts proved ineffective against such a large error count.

That's when Codemods were pointed out to me on the #flowtype IRC!

I'll let the video below explain all about Codemods. But I'll wrap up my story by saying that using Codemods I was able to get our error count from 1495 down to 104 in just a couple of days.

Unfortunately, in the end I didn't get to merge my changes, because a bug in Babel prevented support for the syntactical approach I took to resolve generator errors. But I was able to experience the power of Codemodding first-hand, and I'm glad to add it to my toolbox.

<div style="margin-bottom: 1em">
  <iframe width="680" height="500" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qWPUTHcnj6s" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
